---
layout: post
title: My Statement of Purpose
date:   2020-10-20
categories: [PhD]
permalink: /sop
---

It turns out that I have not written a statement of purpose while being admitted for a PhD programme at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Here goes the statement of purpose post-admission.

<!--more-->

I want to pursue a PhD in Signal Processing, and I aspire to devote my career towards cutting-edge research in sampling theory and inverse problems. My motivation stems from a passion for photography that has exposed me to various topics in signal sampling, processing and learning interpretations. I am a PhD student at Spectrum Lab, under the advisory of Dr Chandra Sekhar Seelamantula and I aspire to learn and contribute towards research in the areas of sampling theory and deep learning.

*Intent*: Signal processing sees a revolution with the influx of deep learning methods. Tasks like video prediction, which were considered computationally infeasible, now use deep models. Practically, deep learning, and in general the entirety machine learning and artificial intelligence outplay state-of-the-art traditional signal processing methods. However, they lack the interpretability that signal processing methods possess that relies on concrete mathematical foundations.

The deep learning revolution has intruded in the areas of sampling theory. Shannon's sampling theory has backed digital signal processing for several decades. In recent times, its restrictions onto the bandlimited space have cost its status. Sampling using structure in scenarios governing compressive sensing and finite-rate-of-innovation sampling have reduced the importance of Shannon sampling theory and given ways to sample at sub-Nyquist rates using low energy ADCs. Further, advances in areas of neuromorphic sensors have made low-energy sampling hardware possible. These sampling modalities, along with neuromorphic samplers, allow sampling of real-world signals using sparse signal models with hardware that consume less energy. The processing and backbone to signal recovery lie in solving inverse problems and in many cases, uses deep learning models. Although it seems complex compared to linear filtering, as in the case of Shannon sampling, complex computations are possible using advances in computer architecture with dedicated hardware using parallel processing. Wearable technologies like smartwatches, home use healthcare devices, smartphone cameras and scanners, including the LiDAR scanner on the new iPhone and iPad are some of the applications of such sub-Nyquist sampling modules.

In some of the recent works by Prof Michael Unser at EPFL, Switzerland, sampling theory and in particular, representation of functions using splines seems to have a close relation to deep learning. In fact, in one of the representer theorems, they show simple neural networks, i.e. functions learnt using data, to be nothing more than a continuous piecewise linear map. Although not too far, this takes us some way into interpreting deep neural networks using frameworks in mathematics that is familiar to the signal processing community.

I intend to work in areas of interpretable deep learning via signal processing backgrounds in sampling theory and functional analysis. I find this area of research attractive as it closely ties signal processing theory and practical deep learning models. As an engineer, there is an inherent responsibility of contributing to the betterment of society while attempting to understand the intricacies in the science governing the world. The areas in interpretable deep learning require a concrete understanding of mathematics and involve a multitude of applications that can serve the world for better.

*Background*: I subscribe to the ideas of Nicholas Bourbaki, and I believe the foundations of everything in science lie in mathematics. My past academic record gives me the confidence necessary in the areas of analysis, algebra and statistics. Having started my PhD journey, I believe I have the temperament to carry research forward in this direction.

In the past, I have worked on areas in finite-rate-of-innovation (FRI) sampling and compressive sensing. In particular, I have worked on algorithms for reconstructing curves in images using the FRI signal model and algorithms for recovery of FRI signals from time-encoded information. I believe this has given me a comprehensive background in the areas of sampling theory.

In the brief time I spent as a teaching assistant to Dr Krishnan, I found a curious teacher in myself. Although I am not a good teacher, I find it in me to improve my teaching skills as it ties in closely with research. As they say, teaching does make your understanding better. This experience gave me some insight into everything teaching that comes along with a research career.

*Conclusions*: At this moment, being a PhD student, I see clarity in my aims towards and the areas of research I intend to explore. Although the start of my PhD coincides with a pandemic, the Indian Institute of Science and my advisor are pillars of support. Working towards a PhD from home is undesirable, but it also serves as a motivation to keep working harder. I am focused and ever so slightly, more excited to be in such fascinating areas of research as I strive to be a stalwart.
