---
layout: post
title: Thanks PMRF!
date: 2020-10-20
categories: [PhD]
permalink: /pmrf
---

My PhD is graciously funded by the Prime Ministers' Research Fellowship. Thank you, Ministry of Education!

<!--more-->

## Academic Background

I completed my Bachelors in Technology in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from the National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK), Surathkal in 2019. Since 2020, I am working towards my PhD at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, under the supervision of [Prof. Chandra Sekhar Seelamantula](https://sites.google.com/site/chandrasekharseelamantula/). My research interests include sampling theory and inverse problems. Refer my full CV [here](https://kamath-abhijith.github.io/assets/cv.pdf).

## About My Research

My primary research interests lie in sampling theory and inverse problems. These areas are tied together in modern signal processing with the advancements in sub-Nyquist sampling schemes such as finite-rate-of-innovation (FRI) sampling and compressive sensing. Within such sampling schemes, the sampling requirements are lesser than classical subspace methods. However, the signal recovery is also complicated. For example, traditionally, in FRI sampling, spectral estimation methods are used to recover the signal and, in compressive sensing, linear programmes are used to recover the signal. These techniques are more complex than classic linear filtering, as in the case of subspace methods.

$$
	x(t) = \sum_{k=0}^{K-1}c_k \delta(t-t_k)
$$

Recently, neuromorphic cameras gained traction for their sparse sampling modality where the energy needed to sample is very low. Neuromorphic sampling records at high sampling rates in the typical asynchronous fashion; however, the recovery process is more complex. Since in many applications, the need for sampling is an estimation task (object detection, tracking, face recognition, etc.) there is no need to recover the underlying sampled signal. In such cases, data-driven algorithms have proven to be popular. However, the problem of recovering the underlying signal from neuromorphic data is still an open problem.

In some recent works, deep learning models inspired by classic signal processing methods have shown to perform better than vanilla iterative methods. The hyperparameters and the preset functions used in classic algorithms are learnt in the training phase in the learning counterpart algorithms. These methods are also one way to explain the network that is used, and in some fashion explaining deep learning models and their performance. Parallelly, in other works, representation of functions using splines have a close relation to deep neural networks. Particularly, it can be shown that neural networks are continuous piecewise-linear maps, i.e., the entire process of training the neural network is essentially learning a spline in a high-dimensional space with the right weights and the proper knots. This is another way of explaining deep learning models.

My primary research goals lie in finding solutions to specific inverse problems in sampling theory and in particular - neuromorphic sampling. Recent trends in learning theory backed by classic signal processing techniques have shown to be the way ahead. As a preliminary, we have investigated the problem of recovery of FRI signals from time-encoded data. Time-encoding schemes, inspired by neuromorphic sampling, are asynchronous sampling schemes, however, adhere to some necessary properties that allow extension of classical recovery techniques. In our work, we show this fact is true in the context of FRI signal recovery, i.e., the problem transposes to finding frequencies from a sum of sinusoids. Please see the full paper [here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9053120) and the short video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JdMvjfvdW38).

## Publications
#### Conference Publications
- Rudresh, S., **Kamath, A.J.** and Seelamantula, C.S., "A Time-Based Sampling Framework for Finite-Rate-of-Innovation Signals" IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) (pp. 5585-5589). [paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9053120)
- **Kamath, A.J.**, Rudresh, S. and Seelamantula, C.S., "FRI Modelling of Fourier Descriptors" IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) (pp. 5092-5096). [paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8682685)

#### Preprints

## Coursework

This is a list of all the courses I have credited/audited as part of the Research Training Programme (RTP). See [here](https://www.iisc.ac.in/courses-offered-in-iisc/) for the complete list of courses offered at IISc.

#### January - April, 2020

- E0 265: Convex Optimization and Applications
- E9 213: Time-Frequency Analysis

#### August - December, 2020

- E0 230: Computational Methods of Optimization
- E1 222: Stochastic Models and Applications
- E2 212: Matrix Theory
- E9 241: Digital Image Processing

#### January - April, 2021

- E1 213: Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks
- E1 244: Detection and Estimation Theory
